Subject:  Re: LISTHEAD program
From:     Updater
Date:     7/20/2014 3:27 PM
To:       Sam Golob <sbgolob@cbttape.org>

Hi Sam,

I have put an updated LISTHEAD program in my READY.ASM PDS. It
now uses the beginning of the loaded module instead of the entry
point, unless the ENTRY keyword is also specified.

There is nothing special about the imbedded comments in programs
that begin with BAKR. In the IKJEFLN2 program the BAKR
instruction is identified by the "END BEGIN" statement as the
entry point, so the entry point is not the beginning of the
loaded program, the comment is. The LOAD macro only returns the
entry point address, unless the LOADPT= operand is specified.
There is no LOADPT= operand on old systems like MVS 3.8. I don't
know when that was added.

Instead of using LOADPT=, I added code to find the CDE for the
loaded module, which leads to the beginning address of the loaded
module, regardless of the entry point. That might work on MVS 3.8
too, but I haven't tried it.

I also changed the logic that displays the first 200 bytes, so it
displays fewer than 200 if the module size is less than 200.

I also added a keyword named ENTRY that makes the command use the
entry point like it did before, so you can see the difference.

A program could be coded with comments just like those in
IKJEFLN2, with no branch around them, and still use STM or the
SAVE macro, as long as the entry point in the END statement
specifies the line with the STM or SAVE macro. There is no
convention that a program using BAKR has to be coded like
IKJEFLN2. IKJEFLN2 might be the only one coded that way.

A program could also be coded with a branch around the comments,
followed by a BAKR.

Best wishes. .

